W-15150469-Retail SFDC Customization Guide (#94)
mulesoft/docs-accelerators: retail/3.2/modules/ROOT/pages/rcg-sfdc-customization-guide.adoc

= Salesforce Customization Guide

> This guide provides instruction on Salesforce customization that are required to enable the customer 360, product and sales order sync use cases to function end-to-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides the Salesforce customizations that must be created to enable the Customer 360, Product, and Sales Order Sync use cases to function end-to-end.
```

> == Custom Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create Custom Objects
```

> The following object must be created either manually or via Apex script as per the instructions provided below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following objects must be created manually or via Apex script:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[%header%autowidth.spread]
```

1. Click on the Salesforce Setup icon and select `Developer Console` to open a new console window.
1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `CustomObjectUtility`.
1. Copy the code from `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CustomObjectUtility.apxc` to the script editor.
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class.
1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `MetadataService`.
1. Copy the code from `https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls` to the script editor.
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class.
1. Select `Debug > Open Execute Anonymous Window`.
1. Copy and paste the contents of `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CreateCustomObjects.txt` into the window.
1. Enable the `Open Log` option, and then click the *Execute* button.

Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show only the results of each create request. Verify that custom object has been created successfully.

> == Custom Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create Custom Fields
```

> The following fields must be created in the corresponding objects either manually or via Apex script as per the instructions provided below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following fields must be created in their corresponding objects manually or via Apex script:
```

| Object Id
| Object_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Object Type
| Object_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status
| Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status Last Changed
| Status_Last_Changed
| Date/Time
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Order
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Order
| Total Tax
| Total_Tax__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Shipping
| Shipping__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Order Total Amount
| OrderTotalAmount__c
| Formula (Currency)
| -
| -
| -
| Shipping__c + Total_Tax__c + TotalAmount

| Product
| Global_Product_Id
| Global_Product_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Product
| Product Group
| Product_Catalog__c
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Product
| Short Description
| Short_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Item Short Description
| Item_Short_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Item Long Description
| Item_Long_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Status
| Status__c
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

|===

[NOTE]
Unique fields should be case-sensitive.

=== Create via Apex Script

> An Apex class called `CustomFieldUtility` is used to create custom fields programmatically. The source for this class can be found in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project. Download this project and follow the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Apex class `CustomFieldUtility` to create custom fields programmatically. See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project to find the source for this class. Once you have downloaded the project, follow these steps:
```

. Select the `File > Save` menu option to compile and save the class.
. Select `Debug > Open Execute Anonymous Window`.
. Copy and paste the contents of `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CreateCustomFields.txt` into the window.
. Enable the `Open Log` option and click the *Execute* button.

Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show just the results of each create request. Verify that all fields have been successfully created.

=== Create Manually via Salesforce

To create each of these custom fields and enable visibility for them on page layouts:

. Click on the Salesforce Setup icon.
. Select the `Object Manager` tab from the Setup home page.
. Find and select the target Salesforce object.
. Select the `Fields & Relationships` page.
. Click the *New* button and create the field as specified above.
. Once the field has been created, click the `Set Field-Level Security` button (or do these steps later - see below).
. Enable for desired profile, or tick the checkbox next to `Visible` to enable visibility for the desired profile(s).

Repeat these steps for each custom field in the above table.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
```

Reviewer: I think adding the equal signs will fix this note, but let's test it in a local build before publishing.

1. Instead of adjusting permissions for each field as you go, if you are only making them available to one or two profiles, then it may be more efficient to go to `Users > Profiles > {profile} > Object Settings` for each object and adjust the permissions for multiple fields at once.

> 1. All `Global_*_Id__c` fields should be visible in layouts (as described above) but made *read-only* to avoid issues with data synchronization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All `Global_*_Id__c` fields should be visible in layouts (as described above) but made *read-only* to avoid issues with data synchronization.
====
```

> 1. All `Global_*_Id__c` fields should be visible in layouts (as described above) but made *read-only* to avoid issues with data synchronization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All `Global_*_Id__c` fields should be visible in layouts, as described previously, but made *read-only* to avoid issues with data synchronization.
```

> == Fields to Be Updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Fields to Update
```

> The picklist fields mentioned in the table needs to be updated as per the instructions provided below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these instructions to update the picklist fields that are listed in the table in the Custom Fields section:
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> | Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | To be updated values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Values
```

| Order | Order Type | Type | Picklist | ADD_ON, CANCELLATION, INITIAL, JOURNAL, RENEWAL, RETURN, SUBSCRIPTION, UPGRADE
| Order | Status | Status | Picklist | CANCELLED, CREATED, CONFIRMED, DELIVERED, IN_CART, IN_TRANSIT, INVOICED, LOST, PARTIALLY_SHIPPED, PICKUP_AVAILABLE, PROCESSING, REJECTED, RETURNED
|===

> To update picklist values for a field in the specified object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the picklist values for a field in the specified object:
```

> . Click on the Salesforce Setup icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Setup*.
```

> . Select the `Object Manager` tab from the Setup home page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Object Manager* tab.
```

> . Find and select the target Salesforce object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for and select the target Salesforce object.
```

> . Select the `Fields & Relationships` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Fields & Relationships* page.
```

> . Search for the target field with field label and select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for and select the target field with the field label.
```

> . Under the header `Picklist Values`, select `New`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *New* in *Picklist Values*.
```

> . Add the respective `To be updated values` from the table with each picklist value on its own line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the corresponding value from the *Values* column in the previous table, placing each picklist value on a separate line.
```

> . Click `Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Save*.
```

> Repeat these steps for each field in the above table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat these steps for each field in the table.
```

> If the fields under `Custom Fields` header were created manually, update the picklist values for the fields in the table as per the instructions above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you created the fields in the previous Custom Fields section manually, update the picklist values for the fields in the table in the Fields to Update section.
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> | Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | To be updated values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Values
```

> | Account | Customer Status | Type | Picklist | Prospect, Onboarding, Active, Inactive, Closed, Deceased, Delinquent, Dormant

Reviewer: Should the items in the Values column be all caps?

Author: It is not in upper-case

| Managed External Identifier | External Id Type | External_Id_Type__c | Picklist | SALESFORCE_B2C, SALESFORCE_CORE, PIM, OFBIZ, SAP_4HANA, MDM, SAP_ECC, SALESFORCE_MARKETING, POS, SALESFORCE_DC, SALESFORCE_LM, ORACLE_EBS

> | Managed External Identifier | Object Type | Object_Type__c | Picklist | BillingAddress, Customer, Email, Fax, Household, Individual, MailingAddress, MobilePhone, Organization, Phone, Product, SalesOrder, ShippingAddress

Reviewer: Should the items in the Values column be all caps?

== Create Platform Events and Apex Triggers

The following Platform Event Object and Apex Triggers must be created in order to capture updates from Salesforce. The scripts to create these Apex Triggers and add fields to Platform Event Object are located in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project.

|===
| Salesforce Object | Salesforce Platform Event Object | Salesforce Platform Event API Name | Apex Trigger Name

| Account
| Account
| Account__e
| AccountEventsPub
|===

=== Create Platform Event Object

This implementation requires `Platform Event` to be created in Salesforce. Follow these steps to create a `Platform Event` object:

. Log in to Salesforce.
. Click *Setup* and search for "Platform Events" in the *Quick Find* box. The Platform Events page shows with a list of available Platform Events.
. Click the *New Platform Event* button to create an Object. Complete the *Platform Information Details* fields, including *Label*, *Plural Label*, *Object with Salesforce Object*, and *Salesforce Platform Event API Name* as indicated in the previous table.
. Click *Save*.

> . To add Custom Fields & RelationShips to Platform Event Definitions, run the utility script `CreatePlatformEventsCustomFields.txt` available in the `rcg-common-resources/salesforce` folder of https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To add *Custom Fields & RelationShips* to Platform Event Definitions, run the utility script `CreatePlatformEventsCustomFields.txt` found in the `rcg-common-resources/salesforce` folder of the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project.
```

> . Follow the steps to run the script provided in `Create via Apex Script` under `Custom Fields`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the steps to run the script provided in *Create Fields via Apex Script* in the previous Custom Fields section.
```

=== Create Apex Triggers

Follow these steps to create the Apex Triggers:

. Log in to Salesforce.

> . Click Setup to search for Object Manager in Quick Find Box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Setup*, and then search for "Object Manager" in the *Quick Find* box.
```

> . Search for the Salesforce object. This opens a page that shows the details of the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for and select the Salesforce object, which opens the object details page.
```

. Click *Triggers* in the Details section to view a list of available triggers for the object.
. Click *New*.

> . Search for the Apex Trigger name, which is indicated in the previous table. Copy the Trigger Script code `CreateApexTriggers.txt` available in the `rcg-common-resources/salesforce` folder of https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project and paste it into the script editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for the Apex Trigger name, which is indicated in the previous table. Copy the Trigger Script code `CreateApexTriggers.txt` from the `rcg-common-resources/salesforce` folder of the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project and paste it into the script editor.
```

> . Obtain the `LastModifiedById` by running the query mentioned in the additional notes below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Obtain the `LastModifiedById` by running the query from the Additional Notes section.
```

. Replace the values in the script and save the trigger.
. Click *Save* and ensure the *isActive* checkbox is checked.

=== Additional Notes

> * The Apex Trigger that is created filter records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}`. This is done to avoid cyclical updates performed by the Salesforce Customers System API. This can be obtained by running the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Apex Trigger that is created filters records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}` to avoid cyclical updates performed by the Salesforce Customers System API. Run the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console to obtain the Apex Trigger.
```

Reviewer: Please verify this suggestion, because I wasn't sure if what was being "obtained" was the Apex Trigger.

1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `CustomObjectUtility`.
1. Copy the code from `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CustomObjectUtility.apxc` to the script editor.
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class.
1. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `MetadataService`.
1. Copy the code from `https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls` to the script editor.
1. Select the `Save` from the File menu option to compile and save the class.
1. Select `Debug > Open Execute Anonymous Window`.
1. Copy and paste the contents of `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CreateCustomObjects.txt` into the window.
1. Enable the `Open Log` option, and then click the *Execute* button.

Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show only the results of each create request. Verify that custom object has been created successfully.

== Create Custom Fields

The following fields must be created in their corresponding objects manually or via Apex script:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> | Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique | ExternalId | Formula

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Salesforce Object Label | Field Label | Field Name | Data Type | Length | Unique | ExternalId a| Formula
```

| Global_MobileNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Party ID
| Global_Party_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Phone Number ID
| Global_PhoneNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Shipping Address ID
| Global_ShippingAddress_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Customer Status
| Customer_Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| External Id
| External_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| External Id Type
| External_Id_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Object Id
| Object_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Object Type
| Object_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status
| Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status Last Changed
| Status_Last_Changed
| Date/Time
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Order
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Order
| Total Tax
| Total_Tax__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Shipping
| Shipping__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Order Total Amount
| OrderTotalAmount__c
| Formula (Currency)
| -
| -
| -

> | Shipping＿c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Shipping＿c + Total_Tax＿c + TotalAmount
```

> | Shipping__c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Shipping＿c
```

> | Shipping__c + Total_Tax__c + TotalAmount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Shipping__c + Total_Tax__c + TotalAmount
```

. Follow the steps to run the script provided in `Create via Apex Script` under `Custom Fields`.

=== Create Apex Triggers

Follow these steps to create the Apex Triggers:

. Log in to Salesforce.
. Click Setup to search for Object Manager in Quick Find Box.
. Search for the Salesforce object. This opens a page that shows the details of the object.
. Click *Triggers* in the Details section to view a list of available triggers for the object.
. Click *New*.
. Search for the Apex Trigger name, which is indicated in the previous table. Copy the Trigger Script code `CreateApexTriggers.txt` available in the `rcg-common-resources/salesforce` folder of https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project and paste it into the script editor.
. Obtain the `LastModifiedById` by running the query from the Additional Notes section.
. Replace the values in the script and save the trigger.
. Click *Save* and ensure the *isActive* checkbox is checked.

=== Additional Notes

> * The Apex Trigger that is created filters records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}` to avoid cyclical updates performed by the Salesforce Customers System API. Run the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console to obtain Service account ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Apex Trigger that is created filters records based on `LastModifiedBy <> {Service account ID}` to avoid cyclical updates performed by the Salesforce Customers System API. Run the query `SELECT Id FROM User WHERE Username='<service-account-username>'` in the Developer Console to obtain Service account ID.
```

= Salesforce Customization Guide

This guide provides the Salesforce customizations that must be created to enable the Customer 360, Product, and Sales Order Sync use cases to function end-to-end.

== Create Custom Objects

The following objects must be created manually or via Apex script:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Salesforce Object Name | Singular Label | Plural Label

|Managed_External_Id
|Managed External Identifier
|Managed External Identifiers
|===

=== Create Custom Object Manually

> 1. In your Salesforce org, click Setup, and then select Setup to open Setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From Setup In your Salesforce org, click the Object Manager tab. If you don’t see it, enter "Object Manager" in the Quick Find box.
```

> 2. Click the Object Manager tab. If you don’t see it, enter Object Manager in the Quick Find box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

3. On the Object Manager page, click Create | Custom Object.
4. For Label, enter the value in `Singular Label`.
5. For Plural Label, enter the value in `Plural Label`.
6. For Object Name, enter the value in `Salesforce Object Name`.
7. Leave the rest of the values as default and click Save.

=== Create Custom Object via Apex Script

> An Apex class called `CustomObjectUtility` and `MetadataService` are used to create a custom object programmatically. The source can be found on https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project and https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls[MetadataService] respectively. Download the project and follow the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The`CustomObjectUtility` and `MetadataService` Apex classes are used to create a custom object programmatically. The source can be found on https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project and https://github.com/financialforcedev/apex-mdapi/blob/master/apex-mdapi/src/classes/MetadataService.cls[MetadataService] respectively. Download the project and follow the steps below.
```

| Global_MobileNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Party ID
| Global_Party_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Phone Number ID
| Global_PhoneNumber_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Global Shipping Address ID
| Global_ShippingAddress_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Account
| Customer Status
| Customer_Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| External Id
| External_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| External Id Type
| External_Id_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Object Id
| Object_Id
| Text
| 80
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Object Type
| Object_Type
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status
| Status
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Managed External Identifier
| Status Last Changed
| Status_Last_Changed
| Date/Time
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Order
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Global_SalesOrder_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Order
| Total Tax
| Total_Tax__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Shipping
| Shipping__c
| Currency
| -
| -
| -
| -

| Order
| Order Total Amount
| OrderTotalAmount__c
| Formula (Currency)
| -
| -
| -

> | Shipping__c + Total_Tax__c + TotalAmount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Shipping__c + Total_Tax__c + TotalAmount`
```

| Product
| Global_Product_Id
| Global_Product_Id
| Text
| 36
| Y
| Y
| -

| Product
| Product Group
| Product_Catalog__c
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

| Product
| Short Description
| Short_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Item Short Description
| Item_Short_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Item Long Description
| Item_Long_Description__c
| Text
| 255
| N 
| N
| -

| Product
| Status
| Status__c
| Picklist
| -
| N
| N
| -

|===

[NOTE]
Unique fields should be case-sensitive.

> === Create via Apex Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create Fields via Apex Script
```

Use the Apex class `CustomFieldUtility` to create custom fields programmatically. See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/2cc3c2c9-ddd3-4582-bdcc-b510f30065a7/rcg-common-resources/[RCG Common Resources] project to find the source for this class. Once you have downloaded the project, follow these steps:

. Click on the Salesforce Setup icon and select `Developer Console` to open a new console window.
. Go to `File > New > Apex class` and create a new class named `CustomFieldUtility`.
. Copy the code from `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CustomFieldUtility.apxc` to the script editor.
. Select the `File > Save` menu option to compile and save the class.
. Select `Debug > Open Execute Anonymous Window`.
. Copy and paste the contents of `rcg-common-resources/salesforce/CreateCustomFields.txt` into the window.
. Enable the `Open Log` option and click the *Execute* button.

Once the script completes, select the `Debug Only` filter option to show just the results of each create request. Verify that all fields have been successfully created.

> === Create Manually via Salesforce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create Fields Manually via Salesforce
```
